so I've always been a fan of small
form-factor pcs I have this thing for
like tiny pcs just like really powerful
computers in these really small form
factors and well it's why I continue to
use this thing the 2013 Mac Pro I like
it because even though it's a 10 core
CPU and it's quite powerful it's still
really quiet and still super small and
even though the GPU is like old and not
very powerful the CPU in there is still
really capable for doing multi-core
stuff which I like I've been trying to
find a Windows equivalent I've been
searching for a very long time and I
think I finally found something that's
really close this is the Trident 3 so
what makes this thing special is the
fact that it's a very very small
computer it's 5 and 1/2 liters which is
very similar in size to the Mac Pro I'll
pull it back and frame again so you can
see it in comparison obviously the I
mean the shape is completely different
but just in terms of volume this is
around 5 and 1/2 liters this is around 5
and 1/2 liters now the official volume
from MSI's website is four point seven
two liters and technically it is because
they're measuring the physical space it
occupies but I feel like it's five and a
half because I'm including the angular
cutaway gap on each side regardless it's
a small case now this is the Arctic
Edition they make another version that's
all black it's like the regular one has
a GTX 1060 has a smaller power supply
everything else is about the same but
because the GPU is weaker than that one
I waited for this one to come out before
it did the video design wise its angular
and boxy I mean some people might love
this look I prefer something a little
more clean a little more minimal but I
like it just because it's small and
because it's white and because it has a
single RGB light for just no no you can
play with colors and stuff but overall I
think the design is good just not
perfect to me the best thing about this
PC is it's five and a half liter size
now there's other IES cases that are
also really small the one that comes to
mind that's probably the most popular in
terms of like small ITX cases is the N
case m1 it's a 12 litre case there's
another ITX case that's even smaller
it's the Dan case
a4 SFX and that thing is 7 litres but
it's really difficult to get your hands
on it the msi tried in three is five and
a half liters it's really small you can
open it up it's not recommended because
there's a sticker that says you
shouldn't but when you do you could have
access to the RAM
the CPU and the GPU you can put up to 32
gigs of ram in here
there's also upgradable storage but you
have to go in underneath there's an m2
stick and there's a two and a half inch
SATA Drive okay has to be completely
honest when msi first sent this thing to
me I thought there's a desktop i7 in
here there's a gtx 10:17 here in a case
that's very small this can't go very
well it's got to be either super hot or
super loud or a combination of the two
turns out the performance is really
strong it's not the fastest thing out
there but most triple-a titles you're
looking at wicked smooth frame rates on
ultra graphics at 1080p and some weaker
titles will let you play with good frame
rates in 4k but most importantly every
single game that I enjoy playing to
overwatch and player unknowns
battleground those two games run
incredibly well in the system I'm able
to stay near 120 frames per second with
really nice looking graphics
you
obviously works well with this because
it's a gtx 1070 and you have the ports
up front for easy access if it's going
into a home theater setup or something
video editing is also really nice on
this machine i did my last few videos on
this and well i'll be doing this video
on this machine as well it's a great
performer so the big question is how
good is the thermal performance because
cooling a pc of this size with this kind
of performance is not an easy task and a
lot of small form-factor
enthusiasts struggle with that whole
like do we make it louder and make it
cool better or do we keep it quieter and
let it run hotter but these guys they
did a pretty good job looking at the
temperatures the idle and low
temperatures are a little warm nothing
bad it's definitely in spec of what
intel recommends and I'm not seeing any
kind of thermal throttling but it does
run warm the good thing is that the fans
are incredibly quiet when it's idle it's
almost silence but even under load this
is one of the quietest systems I've used
with this kind of performance they're
doing this through good automated fan
control but if there was one complaint
to had about the thermal management I
just wish this thing had user
controllable fans like I want to be able
to ramp it up and down depending on
whatever I'm doing and it doesn't have
that so yeah it comes with a mouse and
keyboard with controllable RGB lighting
it's not my cup of tea but they're
actually pretty comfortable to use it's
a membrane keyboard feels nice even
though it's free I'm not gonna lie it
feels better than most membrane
keyboards made by big-name accessory
makers the mouse feels less awesome but
it's not bad it's got a weight
adjustable system but either one of
these peripherals are just kind of like
bonus accessories they're very viable I
just wouldn't go competitive MLG with
them the AC adapter is big it's 330
watts but it's just how the Trident is
able to keep its size the power supply
is external and you can always hide it
to keep your setup relatively clean the
Arctic addition of the Trident 3 starts
at $1500 which is in my opinion a very
fair price for what you're getting I
mean obviously you can build a regular
PC with the gtx 1070 for cheaper than
this there's no doubt if you don't care
about the size of your case you can get
similar performance to this for 1213
hundred bucks it would have better
upgrade ability down the line than this
but it would be a heck of a lot larger
so for em aside to stick all the stuff
into a five and a half liter case and
include a mouse and a keyboard for
$1,500 I think it's fair so some final
notes I've toyed with several small
gaming PC's the coarser one is an
awesome machine
very quiet very well cooled but it's a
little big at 12 liters the asus gr8
series are great I'm not sure how to
pronounce it it's a pretty powerful
system but the fans are way too loud and
so tech makes some small form-factor
boxes which are pretty quiet and small
even smaller than this thing but they're
running lower wattage i5 CPUs which
don't really take advantage of the GPUs
and they're not as good for video
editing which is what I'm trying to do
so overall I really like this system if
you can tell I have a few complaints
about it like I don't love the design I
wish the thermal controls were a little
better and there is some bloat we're not
a ton but if you don't like removing
that stuff it is their overall grade
system now so most people who pick up
something like this or kind of in the
market for something like this they
would stick it in their media center
like under their TV kind of like a
console like to replace a ps4 or
something I'm one of the weird people
that I would use this as my regular PC
because I like my PC small and silent
and I'm just weird like that but for
people that are just in the market for
this kind of device this is a good one
alright I hope you guys enjoyed this
video thumbs we liked it
subs have you loved it I'll see you guys
next time
[Music]